#summary Description of how IMDB dataset was used to compute movie frequencies.

= Introduction =

The idea is to use this dataset to compute a list of total movies each year and sort it in descending order. In addition, compute list of total movies per decade (binning) and visualize it in form of a histogram.

This is a bit tricky because the dataset corresponds to actors and not movies. We need to factor for the fact that:
  # There will be multiple records for movie-year combination as movies generally have more than one actor.
  # There will be multiple records with same movie name but different year as movie names can be reused.

Essentially, we need to uniquely count the movie-year combinations.

= Details =
Following section introduces the dataset, details the approach and the corresponding results.

==Dataset==
IMDB dataset [http://warsteiner.db.cs.cmu.edu/db-site/Datasets/graphData/IMDB source] of all actors in the following format:

FIRSTNAME | LASTNAME | TITLE | YEAR | TYPE | POSITION | GENDER

The data set is around 213MB in size and contains 3.8 million records.

==Approach==
The approach is to break it down into 3 stages (corresponds to MapReduce) tasks and chain them together. Namely,
  # *Filter*: Filter out duplicate combinations of movie-year so that at the end we are left with unique combinations.
    * *Map*: Parse each line of record, skip bad records and emit <Movie, Year>
    * *Reduce*: Filter duplicate Year values for each movie and emit unique <Movie, Year>